3. II. DEFINITION OF TELNET PROTOCOL

   The purpose of Telnet Protocol is to provide a standard method of
   interfacing terminals devices at one site to processes at another
   site.

   The Telnet Protocol is built up from three major substructures, first
   the Initial Connection Protocol (ICP), second the Network Virtual
   Terminal (NVT), and third the Telnet control signals described
   herein.

   Telnet user and server processes follow the ICP to establish
   connections.  The term "Logger" has been associated with the set of
   processes in the serving system which respond to the ICP and perform
   the initial interactions e.g. obtain a name and password.  The ICP is
   defined and the initial socket number and byte size parameters are
   defined in "Current Network Protocols" (NIC #7104).

   The data transmitted between the user and server programs (and vice
   versa) is treated as a character stream with embedded control
   signals.

   Note that all code values are given in decimal.


3.1. TELNET CONTROL SIGNALS

   NAME             CODE    MEANING

   DATA MARK        128     Used to mark a point in the data stream.
                            Used in conjunction with INS.  See SYNCH.

   BREAK            129     User-to-Server:  Has the same meaning to
                            the server as the "Break," "Interrupt," or
                            "Attention" button found on many terminals.

                            Server-to-User:  Has the same meaning to
                            to use as the "reverse break" used with
                            some terminals.

   NOP              130     No Operation.

   NO ECHO          131     User-to-Server:  Asks the server not to
                            return Echos of the transmitted data.

                            Server-to-User:  States that the server is
                            not sending echos of the transmitted data.
                            Sent only as a reply to ECHO or NO ECHO,
                            or to end the hide your input.

   ECHO             132     User-to-Server:  Asks the server to send
                            Echos of the transmitted data.

                            Server-to User:  States that the server is
                            sending echos of the transmitted data.
                            Sent only as a reply to ECHO or NO ECHO.

   Hide your input  133     The intention is that a server will send
                            this signal to a user system which is
                            echoing locally (to the user) when the user
                            is about to type something secret (e.g. a
                            password).  In this case, the user system
                            is to suppress local echoing or overprint
                            the input (or something) until the server
                            sends a NOECHO signal.  In situations where
                            the user system is not echoing locally,
                            this signal must not be sent by the server.

   INS              ---     This is the "Interrupt on Send" signal,
                            defined by the Host-to-Host protocol and
                            implemented by the Network Control Program
                            (NCP).  See SYNCH.

   SYNCH            ---     This is a condition indicated by the
                            combination of the DATA MARK and the INS.

                            User-to-Server:  The Server is to examine
                            the input data stream looking for a DATA
                            MARK signal; if a DATA MARK is found, the
                            server must not process further until an
                            INS is received.  If the server receives an
                            INS, it is required to examine the data
                            stream at once, taking any appropriate
                            action on "break type" characters (e.g.
                            etx, sub, BREAK), up to a DATA MARK signal
                            and thereupon continue its normal processing.
                            The passed over characters may be discarded.

                            Server-to-User:  If the user finds a DATA
                            MARK in the data stream, it must wait for
                            an INS.  If the user receives an INS, it
                            must examine and discard characters up to
                            and including a DATA MARK.


3.2. DATA TYPES

   Telnet normally deals in ASCII characters, but there are provisions
   for escaping to other code sets.  If one of these escapes is used, it
   is undefined (here) whether or not the Telnet signals still have
   meaning or even how to return to the ASCII set:  The Telnet signals
   used to indicate a change of code set are:

                      CODE          MEANING

                      160           ASCII - Standard Telnet
                      161           Transparent
                      162           EBCDIC


3.3. USER TELNET SIGNALS

   The following signals are to be available to the human user to cause
   the user Telnet to take the indicated action.

   Transmit Now         -  Transmit all data entered and locally
                           buffered now.  Intended to be used with line
                           mode.

   Suppress end-of-line -  Transmit all data entered and locally
                           buffered now, and do not transmit the
                           end-of-line immediately following this signal.


3.4. STANDARD TELNET IMPLEMENTATION

   Using Site

   1)  User is able to enter and transmit all ASCII codes

   2)  User is able to cause the Telnet signals BREAK, SYNCH, ECHO and
       NOECHO to be transmitted.

   3)  Provides for the User Telnet signals, (e.g. Transmit Now).

   4)  Implements the CR LF end-of-line convention.

   5)  Provides local echo for local user terminals.

   6)  Correctly processes the Telnet signals BREAK, SYNCH, NOP, ECHO,
       NOECHO, and Hide Your Input received from the server.

   Serving Site:

   1)  Provides a mapping between ASCII and the local character set.

   2)  Correctly processes the Telnet signals BREAK, SYNCH, NOP, NOECHO,
       and ECHO.

   3)  Implements the CR LF end-of-line convention.

   4)  Assumes the using site provides echoing.  May provide a server
       echo mode.


3.5. MINIMUM TELNET IMPLEMENTATION

   Using Site:

   1)  User must be able to enter and transmit all ASCII codes.

   2)  Ignore and delete all Telnet signals from the serving site.

   3)  Provide local echo for local user terminals.

   4)  Implements CR LF end-of-line convention.

   5)  Provide for the User Telnet signals.

   Serving Site:

   1)  Provide a mapping between ASCII and the local character set.

   2)  Ignore and Delete all Telnet signals from the using site.

   3)  Assume the using site provides echoing.

   4)  Implements the CR LF end-of-line convention.
